# Raymond Poggenburg's _Charles Baudelaire: Une Micro-histoire_

## The First Edition

In 1987, Raymond Poggenburg (1926-2004), a professor of French literature at Vanderbilt University, published the first edition of _Charles Baudelaire: Une Micro-histoire_. The aim of the project was to provide a detailed chronology of the life of Charles Baudelaire (1821-1867), the esteemed French poet and essayist.

The first edition of the _Microhistoire_ is divided into four parts: the chronology, references, bibliography, and chronological index. The chronology, comprised of dated entries, constitutes the majority of the tome. It begins with the birth of Baudelaire's paternal grandfather, Claude Baudelaire, in 1711 and ends shortly after Baudelaire's death in 1867. Subsequently, the references are presented much like an endnote section, with up to 10 citations for each entry. The bibliography is an additional resource unto itself, encompassing primary source documents and critical studies up to the date of publication. Finally, the chronological index allows readers to look up individuals, places, or other relevant entities and find the chronology entries in which they are referenced.

It should be noted that Poggenburg distinguished his _Micro-histoire_ from a traditional biography of Baudelaire in a number of ways. While acknowledging that absolute objectivity was unattainable, Poggenburg insisted that the _Micro-histoire_ "ne s'offre pas comme exprimant le point de vue personnel de son auteur" (1987, 1). To emphasize the 'factual' nature of the work, Poggenburg did not write his _Micro-histoire_ as a single narrative but, rather, crafted 4,155 entries and organized them chronologically in order to document specific occurrences related to the life and work of Baudelaire. Furthermore, Poggenburg substantiated nearly every entry with at least one reference, drawn from a rich bibliography of primary and secondary sources. Even when the date of an event was derived from other information or research, Poggenburg identified the resources by which he extrapolated the information. The success of Poggenburg's effort to provide minimal supposition about the events he documented is reflected in the criticism leveled against the _Micro-histoire_: namely, that the title "Chronologie" would have sufficed, since there is no unifying narrative to earn the volume the title "Histoire" (Zeigler 1989, 310).

## The Second Edition

In the early 2000s, a second, [e-edition](http://diglib.library.vanderbilt.edu/baud-search.pl) of the _Micro-histoire_ was published jointly by the Vanderbilt University Press and Jean and Alexander Heard Libraries. The number of entries was expanded to 4,519, and the bibliography was extended to 475 items. The switch from a physical to digital medium for the _Micro-histoire_ was radical in many ways, but it aligned fundamentally with one of Poggenburg's key wishes for the work. By enabling more frequent updates and additions to the chronology and the bibliography, the new digital platform offered a means to make the _Micro-histoire_ "une sorte de chantier, un projet en développement, et non...un monument seulement" (1987, 1).

While Poggenburg's vision to have researchers regularly correct and augment the _Micro-histoire_ has yet to come to fruition, the online publication of the volume has greatly facilitated its use by students, researchers, and the interested public. The increased accessibility of the e-edition is due, in large part, to how the materials were digitized. Rather than preserve the layout of the first edition in an e-book format or scan and OCR a copy of the physical volume, it was decided that the contents of the _Micro-histoire_ would be loaded into a SQL database. Using a web portal built on the perl framework, the database could be queried by users from around the world, either with a keyword or date range.

There are, of course, a number of issues which arise in the translation of the _Micro-histoire_ from analogue to digital formats. One particularly intractable problem is the recording of dates. Though many of Poggenburg's entries have specific dates attached to them, the formatting is inconsistent and many are not absolute. Some entries, for example, date to "Spring" or "between October and November" of a specific year, whereas others may extend across multiple years. Even when the date is in the 'standard' first edition format of day (one- or two-digit arabic numeral), month (capital roman numeral), and year (two- or four-digit arabic numeral) separated by a space, a one- or two-letter abbreviation indicating the day of the week may be inserted between the month and year. The date issue was partially resolved in the e-edition by translating all dates into a mm/dd/yyyy format, and additional modifications (discussed below) have been made in order to optimize discovery of relevant information for date-based queries.

The structure of the first edition presents another problem for the production of an e-edition of the _Micro-histoire_. As outlined in the preceding section, the original _Micro-histoire_ had four distinct parts: chronology, references, bibliography, and chronological index. By appending the references to the appropriate entry for the chronology and replacing the chronological index with a keyword search, the e-edition preserves much of the functionality of the original _Micro-histoire_. The bibliographical database, however, remains hidden to the end-user of the second edition.

It may be argued that the _Micro-histoire_ bibliography has been supplanted by other bibliographical resources. Indeed, between 1965 and 2005, the [W.T. Bandy Center for French and Modern Studies](http://www.library.vanderbilt.edu/bandy/) at the Jean and Alexander Heard Libraries published an annual review of publications related to Baudelaire in the [Bulletin Baudelairien](http://discoverarchive.vanderbilt.edu/handle/1803/4125). Additionally, between 2006 and 2012, the Bandy Center published a separate Baudelairian [Recensement Bibliographique](http://www.library.vanderbilt.edu/bandy/publications.shtml) online. Nevertheless, not every publication on Baudelaire contains information relevant to the _Micro-histoire_, and the inability to access Poggenburg's bibliography hinders continued development of the dataset by not permitting scholars to quickly identify whether a resource has been reviewed for information or not.

## Digital Data Preservation in MODSXML

In August 2016, due (in part) to the deterioration of the perl framework on which the e-edition was built, the _Micro-histoire_ data preservation project was initiated. The e-edition entry and bibliography databases were exported to CSV files, and [OpenRefine](http://openrefine.org/) and an assortment of customized VBA macros were used to clean and standardize the data. In addition to basic data cleaning such as proofreading, the removal of duplicate entries, and the standardization of names and references, some of the substantive changes to the data were as follows:
  * Dates were restructured and standardized to more accurately and consistently represent the original Poggenburg entries (more below).
  * Unfinished bibliographical references (e.g. missing page numbers, publication information, titles) were completed, where information was available.
  * Bibliographical information (e.g. volume and issue numbers, article page numbers, etc.) was checked against the original publications or worldcat records and corrected.

After consideration of the [Dublin Core](http://dublincore.org/documents/dces/) and [CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model](http://www.cidoc-crm.org/) schemata, the Library of Congress [Metadata Object Description Schema (MODS) version 3.6](http://www.loc.gov/standards/mods/) was selected for structuring and marking up the _Microhistoire_ data and metadata in XML. Some of the applicable benefits of MODS for the project include:
  * Appropriate granularity for different types and formats of dates.
  * Well-developed syntax and vocabularies for relating items and objects to one another.
  * Adaptability for describing physical and digital objects.
  * Integration with LOC subject headings.
  * Flexibility in the definition of top-level elements for non-bibliographic information.

Despite the appropriateness of MODS to the data and metadata of the _Micro-histoire_, several adaptations were made in order to fully and acurately describe the records. An explication of the instantiation of MODS 3.6 used in the _Micro-histoire_ XML files follows.

## MODS Elements and Attributes in the _Micro-histoire_

[Formatting in progress]